The advent of the computer, together with Turing’s theory of universal computation, has revolutionized technology and science. Basic physical theories such as quantum mechanics have been formulated on a computational level, leading to inventions such as cryptographic protocols that are guaranteed by the laws of physics to be secure. At the same time, institutions such as Google and Wikipedia have consolidated and indexed the sum total of human knowledge, while bioinformaticians have automated the sequencing of the human genome — the very code of life, which will allow us to better understand, predict, and cure many common diseases.

I believe that the ability to invent, innovate and discover is what has propelled man to the echelons of success. Throughout my life, I have been driven by the desire to “create”, a capability that transcends the passive acquisition of knowledge. It is always the unknown path that has enthralled me more than known terrain. In a world where everything from fighter jets to elevators, interactive graphic displays to digital watches, is driven by computers, I found it difficult not to get fascinated by the technology involved.

If Ray Kurzweil is right in his book “Singularity is Near”, we are near the end of ‘Epoch 4’ (Technology) and entering into ‘Epoch 5’ (The Merger of Human Technology with Human Intelligence). In the distant future, as Ray points out in his book - advanced technology will enable us to have an artificial heart, knees, and almost any other part of the human body. Paralysis due to spinal injuries could be overcome by using specialized electronics that would allow paraplegics to regain control over their muscles.

The attraction of artificial intelligence for me lies in its breadth of applicability, both as a method of problem solving in itself and in a symbiotic integration with other areas of computer science.  A broad spectrum of applications exist within the artificial intelligence field, ranging from intelligent non-player controlled characters in computer game software to a ubiquitous computing solution that intelligently reacts to a variety of users.  This diversity is one of the main reasons that I feel compelled to pursue artificial intelligence further.  While I have striven to develop my understanding of artificial intelligence during my undergraduate education, the choreographed requirements of a bachelor's degree have restricted my research to only a minute sample of artificial intelligence’s applications.  During my exposure to the field, I have often been unsatisfied with the level of interaction artificial intelligence displays in response to prompts of varying complexity.  I do not believe the field has been developed to its potential in any regard, and feel that considerable progress can be made to improve the interactive experience that users have with an artificial intelligence application. 